Hi, everyone.
In this next year, we are going to talk about the array sword method.
All right, so the array of Metho Salzhauer are race based based on their based on the alphabet's,
right.
And also it mutates or changes the original right.
So if you have two arrays like names and numbers here, we can go ahead and sort them based on their
character code or get to be more accurate.
So let's grab the names and we are going to call the sort method.
And if I save it, we can see that Mark is number two and Sandia's number four because this assorting
based on the alphabets.
But if we were to go ahead and Tussaud numbers, we're going to get a different.
Result because the arrest method by default is going to sort everything based on character quotes and
based on the character, Conine has the biggest character.
So that's why it's at the end, even though nine is smaller than twelve hundred and forty five.
So if we come here to this IMDB page, we can see that the search methods, it says it gives us all
the information about that, but it also gives us another kind of information and that is the compare
function.
So if you want our numbers to be sorted, ascending in an ascending order, like from small to big or
in an in a descending order from big to small, we should we should pass in a compare function.
Now we are going to create the COMPAR function.
All right.
So I'm going to say let me sort func and we are going to grab our array and we are going to call a sort
method on it.
We are just storing the results in here.
That's it.
So this is going to receive a callback function.
It is going to have two parameters.
The parameters could be almost anything.
And just choosing A and B and working to return A minus B, save it.
So.
When we do that, it says returns, and B, if this function returns less than zero, then sort it unindexed
index lower than B, right.
And that is a comes first, so let's go ahead and let's go ahead, where is our console?
Is it right here?
And now let's go ahead and let's call this function, console the lock.
And what I'm going to do is.
I'm going to say sort funk, save it, and now you can see that this has arranged them from in an ascending
order, like from small to big.
So I'm just going to say small to big.
Right.
So this is sort of function it if the first value if the f the the result of this is negative one,
which is less than zero, if it is negative one or less than zero, we see that A comes first.
So let's say if if I come here so let's say A is five and B is eight, so five minus eight we are going
to get three sorry, minus three and minus three is less than zero.
Right.
So when we get less than zero, eight comes first.
It means that A is smaller.
When we get a zero out of this, for example A is five and B is five in both cases.
So it's for example, we have two fives in here.
So if I were to just put in five, then it means that five minus five, we are going to get zero.
When we get zero, we do not want to change the position.
So return zero, leave and be unchanged with respect to each other.
Right.
But if this is a positive number, for example, let's say A is 11 in this case.
And let me put in like a smaller number here as well.
Let's put an eight here.
So let's say A is eleven.
Now it's comparing eleven with eight.
When A is eleven, A, B is eight, we are going to get three.
So when when this returns a positive number, we are going to say that the B comes first.
Right.
So F greater than zero.
B to an index lower than A, that's B comes first.
Very simple.
Just keep this in mind that whenever we do A and B on this nums.
It is going to grab all the all these numbers and compare them to each other.
It is going to assign one to A and the other to be and it is going to set a return A minus B F.
I'm just going to say in here, while I hope it's not getting it's not getting confusing.
So I'm just going to write here f if the result I'm just going to say f result is greater than zero,
what do we want to do.
We want to we want the B to come first.
So what comes first.
The become first.
So F a result is equal to zero.
What do we want to do.
We want to say unchanged.
We don't want to change anything.
Basically the position and f result is less than zero, which means negative.
Then ACMS first.
Very, very simple.
Now you do the math, you do the substitution and you will understand what I mean.
So there are two ways that this function works.
So this is the first way that it's ascending from smaller to bigger.
There is another way as well.
And that I'm just going to say B minus A.
B minus A.
So and this is going to say big to small.
Let's save it and let's come inside our log and we can see that it starts from Vegas and it goes to
the smallest, but for this example, this only works.
Keep this in mind for this example.
For this one, we should change it.
So this is going to be a and now this is going to be all right.
So this is how the sword method works for iRace.
See you guys in the next lecture where we will talk about the foreach method.